- [Instructor] Now we're going to dive into our final set
of patterns, which are operational patterns.
Now these are unique and that they're more about
how you run your system than how you build your system.
But these are tried and true methods.
The first one that we're going to talk
about is log aggregation.
So I'll dive into this pattern by first talking
about the source and that is the logs themselves.
The problem that we are trying to solve
is that operationally, we need to know what is going on
with our systems.
When errors occur, we need a way to quickly diagnose
and resolve the errors and logs are one of
the single best places to look.
Logs are invaluable if done right.
Logs provide detailed information of the runtime behavior
of your microservice artifact.
Through other operational patterns that we'll talk about,
logs can be written and linked
to other systems logs as well.
As such, logging must be consistent across services.
As we start doing log aggregation and indexing,
consistency, not only within a single service
but across the entire system becomes critical.
The structure and format of your logs therefore
must be consistent and enforced across the system
as a whole.
While polyglot programming can make this more difficult,
the time spent making your log output consistent
will be well worth it.
Beyond simple structure and possibly more important,
because of the ability to process logs via aggregation,
is the need for common taxonomy.
Domain level taxonomy and logs should be shared
across every consumer and related service.
Identifiers and core values across your log messages
should be keyed the same, and well documented
so that everyone knows what those keys are,
and what keys they should be using
when they write log messages.
Log aggregation is a key pattern in the operations
of a microservices based system.
In monolithic models, the log messages usually all go
to the same output.
As such, they are essentially aggregated on their own.
With microservices however, it's a different thing.
The problem we need to solve is
that our logs are everywhere.
Each service writes its own logs and dumps them
to output of some kind.
The output locations usually are unique per service,
and can be very difficult to follow in a stateless flow.
Log aggregation is, as you might imagine,
a way to aggregate the various output locations
into a single stream of data.
This aggregation takes on many forms,
but the key here is that at the end,
the logs all end up in one place.
Part of that aggregation can and should be parsing
of the logs.
This is where the log structure is so important.
Logs usually have a message and a bunch
of metadata called tags that are associated
with that message.
The more structured the logs are,
the less parsing you have to do on them
because of a limited set of rules.
The reality is that the faster you can
get your logs aggregated, the faster you can use log data
to diagnose issues.
Correlation of log messages is where the real power
comes into play, and why things like structure and taxonomy
are so important.
We will talk about tracing later,
but ensuring tracing identifiers are injected into logs
the exact same way across every service with the same key
will allow you to recreate call stacks of errant processes.
In addition, taxonomy will help you identify issues
as well as have a clear picture
of what those identifiers actually mean.
Finally, and sometimes considered optional,
is the indexing of logs.
Well, I would never build
a log aggregation system without it.
Some may be comfortable searching logs sequentially.
For me, however, indexing the logs for rapid searching
using a common structure, and common taxonomy,
is the way to go.
Logging as a whole is one of those things
that you should just use off the shelf components for.
Structured logging frameworks exist
and almost every language has them.
Log parsing and shipping exists
for almost every common aggregation platform.
You just need to build a common taxonomy and document it,
and then let the tools do their job
across your system as a whole.